https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTlVmknRRnfy_4eTrjw5hYGaiQim5ctr9naaRd4V9du2B5bxpd8FEH3KtDgp8qVekw7Cj1GLk1IXdZi/pub?embedded=True


Introduction

For the final project, you will conduct your own data analysis and create a file to share that documents your findings. You should start by taking a look at your dataset and brainstorming what questions you could answer using it. Then you should use pandas and NumPy to answer the questions you are most interested in, and create a report sharing the answers. You will not be required to use inferential statistics or machine learning to complete this project, but you should make it clear in your communications that your findings are tentative. 


Step One - Choose Your Data Set

Click this link to open a document with links and information about data sets that you can investigate for this project. You must choose one of these datasets to complete the project.


Step Two - Get Organized

Eventually you’ll want to submit your project (and share it with friends, family, and employers). Get organized before you begin. We recommend creating a single folder that will eventually contain:

	The report communicating your findings
	Any Python code you wrote as part of your analysis
	The data set you used (which you will not need to submit)

You may wish to use a Jupyter notebook, in which case you can submit both the code you wrote and the report of your findings in the same document. Otherwise, you will need to submit your report and code separately.


Step Three - Analyze Your Data

Brainstorm some questions you could answer using the data set you chose, then start answering those questions. You can find some questions in the data set options to help you get started.

Try and suggest questions that promote looking at relationships between multiple variables. You should aim to analyze at least one dependent variable and three independent variables in your investigation. Make sure you use NumPy and pandas where they are appropriate!


Step Four - Share Your Findings

Once you have finished analyzing the data, create a report that shares the findings you found most interesting. If you use a Jupyter notebook, share your findings alongside the code you used to perform the analysis. Make sure that your report text is contained in Markdown cells to clearly distinguish your comments and findings from your code work. You should also feel free to use other tools and software to craft your final report, but make sure that you can submit your report as an HTML or PDF file so that it can be opened easily.


Step Five - Review

Use the Project Rubric to review your project. If you are happy with your submission, then you're ready to submit your project. If you see room for improvement, keep working to improve your project!





Submission
What to include in your submission
A PDF or HTML file containing your analysis. This file should include:
	A note specifying which dataset you analyzed
	A statement of the question(s) you posed
	A description of what you did to investigate those questions
	Documentation of any data wrangling you did
	Summary statistics and plots communicating your final results
Code you used to perform your analysis. If you used a Jupyter notebook, you can submit your .ipynb. Otherwise, you should submit the code separately in .py file(s).
A list of Web sites, books, forums, blog posts, github repositories, etc. that you referred to or used in creating your submission (add N/A if you did not use any such resources).

Jupyter notebook instructions
If you used a Jupyter notebook on your computer to create your project, you can include all your code and analysis in the notebook and do not need to create additional files for your analysis. You will still need to export your work in a PDF or HTML format also (see point 1 above), and include this in your submission as well. To download your notebook as an HTML file, click on File -> Download.As -> HTML (.html) within the notebook. If you get an error about "No module name", then open a terminal and try installing the missing module using pip install <module_name> (don't include the "<" or ">" or any words following a period in the module name).




Rubric
PROJECT SPECIFICATION - Investigate a Dataset

Code Functionality
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Does the code work?
	All code is functional and produces no errors when run. The code given is sufficient to reproduce the results described.

Does the project use NumPy and Pandas appropriately?
	The project uses NumPy arrays and Pandas Series and DataFrames where appropriate rather than Python lists and dictionaries. Where possible, vectorized operations and built-in functions are used instead of loops.

Does the project use good coding practices?
	The code makes use of functions to avoid repetitive code. The code contains good comments and variable names, making it easy to read.


Quality of Analysis
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Is a question clearly posed?
	The project clearly states one or more questions, then addresses those questions in the rest of the analysis.


Data Wrangling Phase
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Is the data cleaning well documented?
	The project documents any changes that were made to clean the data, such as merging multiple files, handling missing values, etc.


Exploration Phase
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Is the data explored in many ways?
	The project investigates the stated question(s) from multiple angles. At least three variables are investigated using both single-variable (1d) and multiple-variable (2d) explorations.

Are there a variety of relevant visualizations and statistical summaries?
	The project's visualizations are varied and show multiple comparisons and trends. Relevant statistics are computed throughout the analysis when an inference is made about the data.
	At least two kinds of plots should be created as part of the explorations.


Conclusions Phase
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Has the student correctly communicated tentativeness of findings?
	The results of the analysis are presented such that any limitations are clear. The analysis does not state or imply that one change causes another based solely on a correlation.


Communication
CRITERIA - MEETS SPECIFICATIONS

Is the flow of the analysis easy to follow?
	Reasoning is provided for each analysis decision, plot, and statistical summary.

Is the data visualized using appropriate plots and parameter choices?
	Visualizations made in the project depict the data in an appropriate manner that allows plots to be readily interpreted.


Suggestions to Make Your Project Stand Out!
	Use Markdown cells to report your findings.
	Utilize NumPy or Pandas functionality that goes beyond what was covered in the course.
	Use statistical tests to draw rigorous conclusions where appropriate.







